---
title: "SN 2013ai: a link between hydrogen-rich and hydrogen-poor core-collapse supernovae"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-01-14
excerpt: 'Detailed study of a hydrogen-poor core-collapse supernova'
date: 2021-01-14
venue: 'The Astrophysical Journal'
[//]: #(paperurl: 'not-ready-yet')
[//]: #(citation: 'Garcia, F., Simaz Bunzel, A., et al. (2021). &quot;Progenitors of low-mass binary black-hole mergers in the isolated binary evolution scenario&quot; <i>A&A</i>.')
---

We present a study of optical and near-infrared (NIR) spectra along with the light curves of
SN 2013ai. These data range from discovery until 380 days after explosion. SN 2013ai is a fast
declining type II supernova (SN II) with an unusually long rise time; 18.9 $$\pm$$ 2.7d in V band
and a bright V band peak absolute magnitude of −18.7 $$\pm$$ 0.06 mag. The spectra are dominated
by hydrogen features in the optical and NIR. The spectral features of SN 2013ai are unique in
their expansion velocities, which when compared to large samples of SNe II are more than
1$$\,$$000 kms faster at 50 days past explosion. In addition, the long rise time of the light curve
more closely resembles SNe IIb rather than SNe II. If SN 2013ai is coeval with a nearby compact
cluster we infer a progenitor ZAMS mass of $$\sim$$ 17 M$$_\odot$$. After performing light curve modeling
we find that SN 2013ai could be the result of the explosion of a star with little hydrogen mass,
a large amount of synthesized $$^{56}$$Ni, 0.3$$-$$0.4 M$$_\odot$$, and an explosion energy of
2.5$$−$$3.0$$\times$$10$$^{51}$$ ergs. The density structure and expansion velocities of SN 2013ai are
similar to that of the prototypical SN IIb, SN 1993J. However, SN 2013ai shows no strong helium
features in the optical, likely due to the presence of a dense core that prevents the majority of
$$\gamma$$-rays from escaping to excite helium. Our analysis suggests that SN 2013ai could be a
link between SNe II and stripped envelope SNe.

<i>NASA/ADS</i>: [SN 2013ai: a link between hydrogen-rich and hydrogen-poor core-collapse supernovae](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2021arXiv210105424D/abstract)
